> This great amphitheater stretches three hundred feet across, descending down seven rows of seats to a central clearing, in the center of which is a round pit, thirty feet in diameter. From deep within the pit, the sound of almost monastic chanting rises. This close to the source, there is an inhuman quality to the voices which makes the beastmen of Quetat seem almost human in comparison.

The shaft in the central clearing descends smoothly for 160’, before opening out into Area 3-4. Any disturbance here— including dropping things down the shaft, attempts to descend, or even loud talking—will cause the Corruption Below to dispatch 1d3 chanters in the dark to investigate. After 1d3 rounds, PCs can hear the chanting getting louder as the chanters in the dark fly up the shaft (taking 8 rounds to reach the floor of the amphitheater). PCs can hear the buzz of the chanter’s wings after 4 rounds.

**Chanters in the Dark** (varies): Init +0; Atk pincer +2 melee (1d4) or bite +0 melee (1 plus venom); AC 12; HD 1d12; hp 7 each; MV 10’ or fly 20’; Act 1d20; SP infravision 60’, immune to mind-affecting spells, venom (DC 7 Fort save or 1d3 temporary Personality damage), turning vulnerability (can be turned by lawful or neutral clerics); SV Fort +3, Ref +0, Will +0; AL C; Crit M/d6

Chanters in the dark are halfling-sized fungal creatures, in appearance like insect-winged mushrooms crossed with evil-looking lobsters. The murmurs issuing from hollow fissures in their bodies sound like continual chanting, in a tongue that predates human language. Perhaps all mortal languages are tainted with it, or spring from it, for those within 30’ of the creatures automatically understand enough to know that this is their endless paean to the Corruption Below, a vast primordial creature, sentient and evil, an alien slime mold of titanic proportions. A wizard or elf exposed to this chanting can use it as the basis to attempt learning comprehend languages.

Only when they are slain does their chanting come to an end.

A chanter’s mouthparts exude weak venom that can sap the will of opponents, leaving them docile. The chanters in the dark are not powerful opponents, but there are a lot of them. Every 1d5 rounds, another 1d3 emerge from the shaft until the PCs evacuate the area or have killed all currently present. If the PCs continue to investigate the shaft, this cycle repeats.