> Although this cave is large enough to fit a large house within it, it seems cozy in comparison to the cavern housing Quetat. It is filled with a large fungal growth, a great mount of grayish-mauve mold with golden-tipped rhizomes. Dozens of beastmen sprawl upon the fungal mound, some sleeping, some consuming parts of it. They seem to be oblivious to your presence.

This fungal mound was cultivated by the Yuzz from the material of the Corruption Below itself, and it provides food, healing, a cloth-like substance, and a form of “wood” to the beastman community. Contact with, and consumption of, the Great Fungal Mound allows a PC to heal 1d3 lost attribute points (even from permanent loss or damage, but with the exception of Luck) and 1d6 hit points per day. Lost body parts can also be healed—eyes take 1d3 days, fingers or toes 1d5 days, and whole limbs 2d6 days. Unfortunately, material taken from this cavern does not retain this healing potential.

The Great Fungal Mound is also slightly narcotic and addictive. A character engaged with the Mound is barely aware of anything else even once fully healed. It requires a **DC 15 Will save** to disengage on one’s own. Even with vigorous aid, a **DC 10 Will save** is required. The Caretaker will sometimes stalk this chamber, plucking newly-regenerated eyes from beastmen who are not even aware this is happening. Fortunately, material taken from here doesn’t retain this property either.

Once a creature has sampled the Great Fungal Mound, the addictive properties also set in. Unless the character succeeds on a **DC 5 Will save**, they find themselves craving the Mound. If they do not return to it within 1d3 days, they suffer a -1d penalty to all rolls until they do, or until they have succeeded in three successful Will saves (one per day). Each time a creature samples the Great Fungal Mound (regardless of how long they do so), the DC for these saves increases by +2.