> At the end of the tunnel, there is another shaft, this one reaching upward perhaps five hundred feet or more to the surface world! Although light streams in from above, the passage slants away from you, making the reachable surfaces impossible to navigate. The far wall, some fifty feet away, looks negotiable, with a series of ledges and rough places to grip, as well as offering a slope that would make climbing easier. A huge stone slab forms a makeshift bridge to the far side, but it doesn’t take a dwarf to see how precariously it is balanced. It would take very little pressure to send it crashing down the shaft, certainly less pressure than even a single step! Alien chanting is faint, but audible, from the darkness below. You can just make out a shadow far below that looks like a lower passage—one which might give access to the scalable side. If the huge stone were dislodged, that passage would be lost, trapping you here forever.

Anyone trying to cross this bridge will inevitably make it fall. As it smashes down the bore hole, it strikes other rocks, which follow it down. When the dust settles, the lower passage is completely cut off; the bottom of the bore hole is sealed. Anyone on the stone slab when this happens is dead, their bodies buried forever in the rockfall. In all likelihood, the PCs are trapped to live among the beastmen, addicted to the Great Fungal Mound, and sacrificing their eyes periodically to the Caretaker.

Players may have other ideas. Spider climb, for instance, might get one or more PCs to the far ledge with a rope, although PCs will need to have more than 50’ to both tie it off and span the bore hole. A truly foolhardy PC may attempt to run and jump with a rope, hoping to be able to reach the far wall as the bridge collapses. Doing so requires both a **DC 15 Agility check** and a **DC 20 Strength check**. Failing either sends the hapless character crashing to their doom. Characters should have an idea of how difficult such an attempt would be before trying it—but with the right PC, and perhaps a lucky halfling, it is possible to succeed.

Because of the bore hole’s slope, and lack of ready handholds on this side, it would take a thief three Climb Sheer Surfaces checks (**DC 25**, **DC 20**, and **DC 15** respectively) to get to the more easily climbed area; while unlikely, with a liberal use of Luck, it is not impossible.

Any beastman with the PCs will do their utmost to dissuade them from the attempt, although their reasons will be different based on their faction: to keep the PCs for help against the Temple, to keep the PCs as potential new citizens, or to keep the PCs for sacrifice.