> Ahead in the darkness, perhaps some fifty feet away, is a glimmering pale form, like a giant green-white puffball mushroom. It stands on dozens of legs, each of which ends with a large, sucker-like pad. You can see what appears to be a ribcage below the leathery fungal exterior, but no other features.

This creature is the Sentinel, set here to guard the final passage to the Corruption Below. Like the Caretaker, there is only one Sentinel at a time, and the Corruption Below requires 1d7 days to gestate another.

**Sentinel**: Init +3; Atk maw +5 melee (1d8 plus restraint) or ram +4 melee (2d6) or fungal tongue +6 ranged (capture and pull); AC 16; HD 10d12; hp 60; MV 30’ or climb 20’; Act 1d20; SP infravision 60’, restrain targets, capture and pull 10’ with tongue; SV Fort +6, Ref +3, Will +6; AL C; Crit M/d16.

When it attacks, the Sentinel’s rib cage opens up like a sharp-fanged maw, with an audible ripping sound and the nauseating odor of rotten meat. Its fungal tongue can attack targets up to 30’ away, and on a successful attack, captures the target and pulls it toward the Sentinel. The target can attempt an **opposed Strength check** vs. +6 to resist being pulled, while a **DC 15 Strength check** or a successful Mighty Deed can dislodge the tongue’s grasp. Otherwise, each round, the victim is dragged 10’ closer to the Sentinel, until it is drawn into the Sentinel’s maw.

When attacking with its maw, targets not caught by the tongue are allowed a **DC 10 Reflex save** to avoid being captured. Otherwise, the target is restrained in the maw, which seals behind it. The Sentinel then travels as quickly as it can to **Area 3-4**, where restrained targets are expelled into the Corruption’s lake. It can only make ram attacks so long as it has a target restrained in its maw. Restrained targets are unable to take any action requiring physical movement, although their muffled voices can still be heard.

Unless forced to attack, the Sentinel uses its action die to move once it has restrained a target.