**The Religious**, led by the enormous goat-headed Ordimus, have accepted the teachings of the priests of Yuzz, and believe that divine grace comes through sacrifice. To them, consumption from the Great Fungal Mound is a communion, and delivering their eyes to the Caretaker is a glad sacrifice. The pain of that sacrifice, they say, teaches them humility, although they are the least humble of Quetat’s inhabitants. The narcotic properties of the Great Fungal Mound are but an echo of the ecstasy of numbness to be found beyond death. To the Religious, the PCs represent an outside evil, come to tempt their people away from the true path. If they do not embrace the true path, they must be sacrificed before they lead others astray. They live mostly to the south.

There are no set encounters with Ordimus, or his followers, who can be used by the judge as they see fit to increase tension while the PCs explore Quetat. Ordimus is best used as a whispered name; his followers may denounce the PCs, ambush them in narrow passages, or otherwise make life difficult. If the PCs are actually captured and brought before Ordimus, the adventure is probably over. Still, the PCs shape fate and overthrow the status quo in Dungeon Crawl Classics. They may seek Ordimus out themselves, perhaps even devise a brilliant scheme to turn him into an ally! The judge is encouraged to reward audacity; remember, the beastmen—even Ordimus—are victims here.

**Ordimus**: Init +3; Atk spear +2 melee (1d6+2); AC 14; HD 3d10+6; hp 25; MV 30’; Act 1d20; SV Fort +4, Ref +3, Will +1; AL C; Crit III/d8. 