> The narrow hall is lined with cut stone blocks. Dusty cobwebs hang from the low ceiling and time itself seems to weigh upon this ancient place. A trio of upended chests rest in the shadows in the rear of the chamber amid a scattering of coins. Tracks in the dust record the path of recent looters.

This vault once held the amassed wealth of the chaos lords. Unfortunately, the beastmen have already transported the bulk of the wealth to **area 1-5**. All that remains are three chests and the spilled coins littering the floor (**1d20 cp, 1d12 sp, 1d8 gp**). While all of the chests are unlocked and emptied of wealth, the beastmen missed a secret compartment hidden in the base of the second chest.

While the hidden compartment is easy to discover (the floor of the chest is 4 inches too high), opening the compartment poses a danger. The compartment can be opened by sliding a false panel in the back of the chest. Unless the PC also succeeds on a **DC 15** Reflex save, the PC is struck by a slim, scything blade trap, **inflicting 1d4** points of damage and slicing off **1d2 fingers**.

Hidden inside the compartment are two silver rings set with emeralds (**worth 15 gp each**), a silk tabard stitched with the sigil of Chaos (**worth 5 gp**) and a steel vial containing two doses of black lotus oil. Characters imbibing the lotus **oil gain 1d10 hp for 1 hour**, but at the end of the hour lose any hp gained from the oil and must succeed on a **DC 10** Fortitude save or take **1d4 points of damage**.