> The island draws closer, revealing the source of the golden glow: a towering ziggurat, with burning light radiating from within the sliver-thin cracks between its massive stone blocks.
> 
> A wide ramp circles the edifice, sloping to the top of the temple. Hordes of beastmen crowd the ramp, howling to the darkness hammering on massive hide drums and pushing a terrified string of prisoners to the ziggurat’s glowing peak. High atop the temple, you can make out a fearsome silhouette of an enormous armored figure, wreathed in infernal smoke lit from below.

The ziggurat serves as a mystical forge designed for a single purpose: reuniting the spirit of the chaos lord with a physical body. The beastmen are driving the kidnapped villagers up the ziggurat to be slaughtered, their bodies pitched into the molten heart of the ziggurat along with a king’s ransom in gold, silver, and copper. A beastman shaman reigns over the ceremony, hoisting an effigy of the chaos lord high into the smoke. While the effigy cannot fool PCs reaching the uppermost level of the ziggurat, it is sufficient to deceive characters peering up from below.

PCs disguised as chaos priests (with the robes from area 1-2) or as beastmen (with the hides and furs from area H) can pass through the throngs of beastmen with little difficulty. The judge should call for Personality checks to maintain the tension, but the beastmen are lost in religious fervor and not expecting infiltrators within their midst. Of course, if the PCs attack either the beastmen or the mock chaos lord, the con is instantly detected.

If the characters haven’t adopted a ruse, gaining the peak of the ziggurat is more difficult. The beastmen do not immediately notice the PCs’ arrival; if the PCs sneak and climb along beneath the ramp, there is a slim chance they can draw close to the peak of the ziggurat before being discovered. The lead PC must make a series of Agility checks with increasing difficulty to avoid notice as the party climbs higher up the temple. Circling the first level requires a DC 10 Agility check; circling the second, a DC 15 check; ascending the third level, DC 20. Climbing from the third level to the peak of the ziggurat immediately alerts the beastmen to the characters’ presence, but the PCs gain a free surprise round. (Thieves can use their skills in place of an Agility check.)

Finally, if the PCs opt to attack the beastmen from the onset and take the temple by storm, they will pay the price in blood. Again, the PCs are granted a free surprise round before the beastmen turn their full might on the audacious characters. There are 22 beastmen crowded onto the ramp, with another 3 acolytes atop the ziggurat attending the beastman shaman.

**Beastmen** (22): Init +1; Atk spear +0 melee (1d6); AC 12; HD 1d8; hp 3 each; MV 30’; Act 1d20; SV Fort +1, Ref +1, Will -1; AL C.